https://learn.temporal.io/getting_started/typescript/dev_environment/

Install Temporal CLI on your local machine using the following instructions for your platform.

    macOS
    Windows
    Linux

You can install the latest stable version with Homebrew using the following command:

brew install temporal

You can also install Temporal CLI using the installation script. Review the script and then download and install Temporal CLI with the following command:

curl -sSf https://temporal.download/cli.sh | sh

Once you've downloaded the file, extract the downloaded archive and add the temporal binary to your PATH by copying it to a directory like /usr/local/bin.

Once you've installed Temporal CLI and added it to your PATH, open a new Terminal window and run the following command:

temporal server start-dev

This command starts a local Temporal Cluster. It starts the Web UI, creates the default Namespace, and uses an in-memory database.

    The Temporal Server will be available on localhost:7233.
    The Temporal Web UI will be available at http://localhost:8233.

Leave the local Temporal Cluster running as you work through tutorials and other projects. You can stop the Temporal Cluster at any time by pressing CTRL+C.
Change the Web UI port

The Temporal Web UI may be on a different port in some examples or tutorials. To change the port for the Web UI, use the --ui-port option when starting the server:

temporal server start-dev --ui-port 8080

The Temporal Web UI will now be available at http://localhost:8080.

The temporal server start-dev command uses an in-memory database, so stopping the server will erase all your Workflows and all your Task Queues. If you want to retain those between runs, start the server and specify a database filename using the --db-filename option, like this:

temporal server start-dev --db-filename your_temporal.db

When you stop and restart the Temporal Cluster and specify the same filename again, your Workflows and other information will be available.

Once you have everything installed, you're ready to build apps with Temporal on your local machine.
---------------------------------------
